## 1 ict strategy to implement and use for analysis
What is Inducement Trading – Inducement in Forex Explained Step by Step

Inducement trading involves identifying and avoiding the smart money traps used to manipulate retail traders for executing sell or buy orders.

Inducement in forex is basically an area on price chart which triggers the FOMO traders to execute the trades early and results in the loss.

To be a successful trader you should know about these smart money traps and avoid them.

In this article you will be exploring the valid inducement in forex with real market examples to improve your win ratio in trading.

You can jump to the section you are most interested in from below or can continue reading the whole article for better understanding.

Table of Contents
What is Inducement Trading?
How to identify Inducement in Forex?
Types of Inducement in Trading
Inducement in case of CHOCH
Inducement in case of BOS
Inducement After Break of Structure
How to Avoid Inducement in Forex?
Best Timeframe for Inducement Trading
Best Pair for Inducement Trading
What is Inducement Trading?
The act of persuading someone to do something is called inducement. In trading inducement means any key level or market structure which persuades a FOMO trader to execute a trade.

It is basically a smart money trap for retail traders which leads them in believing for a certain bullish or bearish move.

While in reality price does not move in that way and it goes against retail trader’s expectations.

How to identify Inducement in Forex?
As we discussed earlier that inducement is smart money trap which can be in the form of an Order Block, Supply & Demand Zone or Support & Resistance Area.

But we have to identify which order block, supply/demand zone or support resistance zone is inducement and which is valid point of interest for executing a trade.

To identify inducement in forex market you should first know about Valid Pullback , Break of Structure (BOS) and Change of Character (CHOCH).

After going through these SMC concepts you will be able to understand valid inducement very well.





Types of Inducement in Trading
For better understanding inducement is divided into two major types given below:

Inducement in case of CHOCH
In case of a CHOCH, inducement is the very first pullback before price changed its character.

In other words you can say that when price changes its character you have to look back in the price leg which lead to the CHOCH and find a valid pullback to mark inducement.

Real market examples of inducement in case of bullish and bearish CHOCH are shown below.

Inducement in case of BOS
Inducement in case of BOS, is the very first pullback before market broke the structure.

In other words you can say that when price breaks its structure you have to look back in the price leg which lead to BOS and find a valid pullback to mark inducement.

Real market examples of inducement in case of bullish and bearish BOS are shown below.

Inducement After Break of Structure
After major BOS price may shift its high without breaking the structure, in this scenario you have to mark the price leg which broke the high and find the valid pullback in the price leg.

The valid pullback before breaking the high will be the valid inducement.

For detailed study about inducement after break of structure you can read here.

How to Avoid Inducement in Forex?
To avoid inducement in forex you have to follow just one rule “Do not take a trade until inducement is grabbed.”

So in bullish trend you should not take a buy trade until price clears the inducement by going below inducement low and hunting stop losses.

While in bearish trend you should not take a sell trade until price goes up and clears the inducement by going above inducement high.

Best Timeframe for Inducement Trading
To mark the inducement and execute a trade on the basis of inducement, you would be using the 15-Minutes timeframe.

But you should have an idea of higher timeframe market structure using 1-Day and 4-Hour charts.

Best Pair for Inducement Trading
Inducement trading works best with almost all trading pairs like the currencies GBP/USD, EUR/USD or USD/CAD and you can trade XAU/USD or XAG/USD as well, using this strategy.

But XTI/USD also known as USOIL is hard to tackle using this strategy and has lesser win ratio.


## 2 Master Break of Structure Trading – BOS in Forex Explained
Break of structure in trading refers to a smart money concept, which indicates the price breaking its previous structure in the direction of its current trend.

BOS indicates the continuation of trend and traders utilize it to maximize their gains.
In this article you will get to know about the break of structure from its formation to identification and to to use with real market examples.

You can continue reading the whole article or jump to the section you are most interested in:

Table of Contents
What is Break of Structure in Trading?
How to Identify Break of Structure in Trading?
(I) Bullish Break of Structure
(II) Bearish Break of Structure
Best time frame to Identify Break of Structure?
How to Trade Break of Structure in Forex?
ICT MSS vs BOS
Final Thoughts
But before going in-depth of break of structure you should also know about Inducement

What is Break of Structure in Trading?
Break of structure is basically a continuation of market trend by breaking its previous structure.

Break of structure helps us to catch continuation trades in the market and it also helps to identify the market trend.

Bullish break of structure indicates higher prices in future while bearish break of structure indicates lower prices in future.

You can see the example of BOS in the picture given below:

How to Identify Break of Structure in Trading?
But before going in-depth of break of structure you should also know about Inducement

Because the break of previous structure after taking the inducement is the valid break of structure.

On the basis of market trend break of structure can be divided into two types which are explained below.

(I) Bullish Break of Structure
When price is in bullish trend it makes higher highs which means it always breaks its previous high making a new high and this is called bullish break of structure.

But break of structure is incomplete without inducement so a break of structure in bullish trend happens when price grabs the inducement and breaks the previous high making a higher high.

You can see the real market example of bullish break of structure in the picture given below:



If price breaks previous high without grabbing the inducement it is called a minor break of structure and in this way a new high is found but the previous low remains intact.

You can see the example of bullish Minor-Bos in the picture given below:


(II) Bearish Break of Structure
When price is in bearish trend it makes lower lows which means it always breaks its previous low making a new low and this is known as bearish break of structure.

But break of structure is incomplete without inducement so a break of structure in bearish trend happens when price grabs the inducement and breaks the previous low making a lower low.


If price breaks previous low without taking out the inducement it is called a minor break of structure and in this way new lower low is formed but the previous lower high remains same.

You can see the example of bearish Minor-Bos in the picture given below:

Best time frame to Identify Break of Structure?
Market structure appears across all time frames and different time frames often display different market structures.

So you can identify break of structure in any time frame by marking the previous structure.

The best approach is to have a clear understanding of the market as a whole. This includes low time frame, medium time frame, and high time frame structure.

Think about each time frame and align the market structure as top down analysis.

How to Trade Break of Structure in Forex?
In bullish market when price breaks the structure you should mark inducement and wait for price to retrace back and take inducement.

When price grabs inducement you can look for buy trades with confirmations like Market Structure Shift or trend reversal in lower time time frames.

In bearish market when market breaks the structure you should mark inducement and wait for price to retrace back and take inducement.

When price grabs inducement you can look for sell trade with confirmations like market structure shift or trend reversal in lower time time frames.

ICT MSS vs BOS
As we have discussed earlier break of structure indicates break of previous structure (high/low) after taking out the inducement.



While ICT market structure shift indicated the break of Swing Low or Swing High.

So the difference between the break of structure and market structure shift is just inducement.

Break of structure indicates the larger shift in price trend while the market structure shift indicates the initial shift in the structure.

You can see the picture below explaining BOS vs MSS:

Final Thoughts
While using break of structure in trading, we should keep in mind that no strategy is foolproof in trading, so you should not risk all your capital on this strategy.

Plus to mitigate your risks, you should always trade with stop loss in place to keep your equity safe.



## 3 Change of Character (CHOCH) in Trading – Market Structure
Do you want to master change of character the core element of Market Structure in trading to trade like a pro ?

Well in this article we will be exploring core element of market structure called change of character (CHOCH) from its identification to its use with examples.


Change of Character in trading is the first indication of trend reversal in the financial markets and it helps to catch good trend reversal trades.

Now lets start with defining the change of character (CHOCH).

What is Change of Character in Trading?
As obvious from the term, change of character signals possible change in the trend of market either from bullish to bearish or bearish to bullish.

It is basically a break of structure but in opposite direction of previous trend which indicates change of market trend.

On the basis of market trend change of character can be divided into two types which are explained below.

(I) Bullish Change of Character

Bullish change of character is the reversal of market trend from bearish to bullish and it happens at the end of bearish trend.

As you know in bearish trend price makes lower lows and lower highs, at the time when price changes its trend it breaks its structure in opposite direction making a higher high.

Like previously price was making lower highs but at the time of change of character price breaks lower high and makes a higher high.

And in this way the series of lower highs comes to end and a new series of higher highs starts which means trend has reversed from bearish to bullish.

(II) Bearish Change of Character

Bearish Change of character is the reversal of market trend from bullish to bearish and it happens at the end of bullish trend.

As you know in bullish trend price makes higher highs and higher lows, at the time when price changes its trend it breaks its structure in opposite direction making a lower low

Like previously price was making higher lows but at the time of change of character price breaks higher low and makes a lower low.

And in this way the series of higher lows comes to end and a new series of lower lows starts which means trend has reversed from bullish to bearish.

What is Best time frame to identify Change of Character?
Market structure appears across all time frames and different time frames often display different market structures.

So you can identify change of character in any time frame by marking the previous structure.

The best approach is to have a clear understanding of the market as a whole. This includes low time frame, medium time frame, and high time frame structure. Think about each time frame and align the market structure as top down analysis.

How to Trade Change of Character?
In bullish CHOCH when market changes its character from bearish to bullish you should mark inducement and wait for price to retrace back and take inducement.

When price grabs inducement you can look for buying opportunities with confirmations like market structure shift or trend reversal in lower time time frames.

In bearish CHOCH when market changes its character from bullish to bearish you should mark inducement and wait for price to retrace back and take inducement.

When price grabs inducement you can look for selling opportunities with confirmations like market structure shift or trend reversal in lower time time frames.

Final Thoughts
While using change of character in trading, we should keep in mind that no strategy is foolproof in trading, so you should not risk all your capital on this strategy.

Plus to mitigate your risks, you should always trade with stop loss in place to keep your equity safe.

## 4. 3 Step Guide to Master Valid Pullback in Trading- SMC

Pullback is just a retracement in impulsive move but valid pullback has some identifications which are explained below.

Now lets start with defining the Pullback.

What is Pullback in Trading?
Pullback in trading is basically a retracement of an impulse move which can be with a single candle or number of candlesticks.

Bearish candlesticks in a bullish move and bullish candlesticks in a bearish move are simply called the pullbacks.

What is Valid Pullback in Trading?
As we discussed earlier pullback is a retracement move, but every retracement is not a valid pullback.

We will be dividing valid pullback in two types listed below.

Valid Pullback in Bullish Market
As you know when prices move higher its called bullish market, So in bullish market the bearish candles are simply the pullbacks.

But to identify a valid pullback in bullish market you have to check following things.

(I) Mark the highest bullish candlestick before the pullback candlestick.

(II) Mark the low of that highest bullish candlestick.

(III) Check if the low of that highest bullish candlestick is grabbed by the pullback candlesticks.

(IV) Check that after low (of the highest bullish candlestick) being grabbed the high (of the highest bullish candlestick) is broken.

For grabbing the low , you just have to check if price went below the low no matter by just a wick or candlestick closing

But for breaking the high closing of candlestick above the high is compulsory

Valid Pullback in Bearish Market
As you know when prices move lower its called bearish market, So in bearish market the bullish candles are simply the pullbacks.

But to identify a valid pullback in bearish market you have to check following things.

(I) Mark the lowest bearish candlestick before the pullback candlestick.

(II) Mark the high of that lowest bearish candlestick.

(III) Check if the high (of that lowest bearish candlestick) is grabbed by the pullback candlesticks.

(IV) Check that after high (of that lowest bearish candlestick) being grabbed the low (of that lowest bearish candlestick) is broken.

For grabbing the high , you just have to check if price went above the high no matter by just a wick or candlestick closing

But for breaking the low closing of candlestick below the low is compulsory

NOTE : This all phenomenon of valid pullback may happen with a single candlestick or number of candlesticks.


## 5 My Ultimate ICT Intraday Trading Strategy – Led Me Pass $100k Funded Challenge

As the sharing is caring so I’m gonna share my ICT intraday trading strategy with you guys.

This strategy is mainly based on the ICT Daily Bias and the trading sessions.

You can jump to your favorite section of the article or continue reading the whole:

Bonus Tip: FTMO Need Traders, If you have got the potential & looking for reliable prop firm then Sign Up Here.

Table of Contents
What is My Ultimate ICT Intraday Trading Strategy?
Realistic Objectives
Frequency of Setups
Risk to Reward Ratio
Consolidated Asian Range on a Bullish Day
Asian Expansion on a Bullish Day
Consolidated London Range on a Bullish Day
London Expansion on a Bullish Day
When to Trade Asia?
What is My Ultimate ICT Intraday Trading Strategy?
In my long journey of trading I have traded so many strategies but the one I’m sharing with you guys is one of my favorite and fruitful.

This strategy is based on the trading sessions like Asia, London and New-York in conjunction with the ICT daily bias, ICT Liquidity Sweep and Liquidity Run.

Mainly I do not trade tha Asia session which starts at 06:00 PM New-York local time and ends at 03:00 AM NY-local time.

But there are conditions when I have to trade the Asia which will be discussed later in this blog.

Mostly I wait for the London session opening at 03:00 AM NY-local time and look for the London Judas Swing either below the Asia’s low or back into the Asia’s range.

After the London judas swing I look for the trade confirmation either the ICT-CISD or ICT-MSS in lower timeframe like M-5,M-3 or even M-1.

You can see the illustration of ICT intraday trading strategy in the picture given below:

Realistic Objectives
Trade duration : Typically 1 to 3 Hours or less.

Pips per trade : 50 to 100 pips or maximum 150 pips.

Timing chart interval : 1-Day and 4-Hours for the daily bias and 15-Minutes to look for the Liquidity sweep while the M-5 or lower timeframes for trade entry confirmation.

Frequency of Setups
Per week : As many as 15 or less.

Per day : 2 to 3 setups typically.

Per session : 1 per session typically (London, New-York and Asia).

Risk to Reward Ratio
Minimum 1:2 and the maximum 1:3.

But book half of your profits at 1:1.

Now let’s discuss each scenario of this strategy focusing the Bullish Daily Bias:

Consolidated Asian Range on a Bullish Day
Asia can do one of two price engines, either consolidation in a range or expansion.

When Asia consolidates in the range you just need to mark the high and low of Asian range and wait for the London session opening.

Asian range may vary between 20 to 50 pips.

After the tight range of Asia when London opens it is gonna create the judas swing to attract the sellers.

You just need to sit down and watch the price taking the low of Asian range and hitting any Discount PD Array.

When price takes the Asian low it can go down more to attract more sellers at the discounted price that is why you need to look for confirmation for the trade entry.

For the confirmation you would look for the ICT-CISD or ICT-MSS on the lower timeframe like the 5-Minutes or lower than that.

After the trade confirmation you can execute a buy trade directly or wait for price to retrace back if the price has expanded more than 50 pips.

In this scenario your stop loss will be below the London low marked and your take profit level will be Asian range high or the previous day high.


Asian Expansion on a Bullish Day
When the Asian session expands more than 50 pips probably 70 to 100 pips, you would plot the Fibonacci retracement tool from low to high of Asian expansion.

Mark the 50% retracement level and the ICT-OTE levels,

After the London open look for the London judas swing and the retracement back into the Asian range at 50% retracement level or the OTE levels.

When price hits the 50% retracement level or the OTE levels look for the trade confirmation on 5-Minutes chart or lower timeframes.

After the confirmation you can execute a buy trade with stop-loss below London low and the target at the Asian-High or the previous day high.


Consolidated London Range on a Bullish Day
London can either consolidate in a range or expand.

When London consolidates in a range, you simply need to mark the high and low of the London session range and wait for the New York session opening.

The London range typically varies between 20 to 50 pips.

After this tight consolidation, when New York opens, it often creates a Judas swing to attract sellers.

You need to patiently observe the New York Open taking out the low of the London range and hitting any Discount PD Array.

Once price takes out the London low, it may continue lower to attract more sellers at a discounted price, which is why confirmation is key before entering a buy trade.

For confirmation, look for ICT-CISD or ICT-MSS on a lower timeframe (5-Minutes or lower).

Once confirmed, you can either execute a buy trade immediately or wait for a retracement if price has already expanded more than 50 pips.

Stop Loss: Below the New York low marked.

Take Profit: London range high or the previous day’s high.

London Expansion on a Bullish Day
When the London session expands more than 50 pips, typically 70 to 100 pips, you should plot the Fibonacci retracement tool from the low to high of the London expansion.

Key Steps:

Mark the 50% retracement level and the ICT-OTE levels.

After the New York Open, watch for the New York Judas swing and the retracement back into the London range at the 50% retracement level or the OTE levels.

When price hits the 50% retracement level or the OTE levels, look for trade confirmation on the 5-minute chart or lower timeframes.

After confirmation, execute a buy trade with:

Stop-Loss: Below the New York low.

Take Profit: London high or the previous day’s high.

When to Trade Asia?
Best Days: Monday or Tuesday (when price may mark the weekly low).

Key Setup: Asia distributes over 100 pips and raids the previous day’s low
Price reverses after taking the low.

Trade Confirmation: Look for ICT-CISD or ICT-MSS on the 5-minute chart
Enter a buy trade immediately or wait for a retracement to a Fair Value Gap (FVG) or Breaker Block.

Trade Setup:

Stop-Loss: Below the Asian low
Take Profit: Asian high or previous day’s high
For a swing trade: If it’s Monday or Tuesday and price marks a weekly low, hold the trade to target the weekly high.

## 6 What is ICT CISD – Change in the State of Delivery Explained
ICT CISD stands for change in state of delivery, which means shift of price delivery from buy-side to sell-side or sell-side to buy-side.

CISD is used as a confirmation of trade entry at the higher time frame PD Arrays.

CISD can confirm the reversal of price before a market structure shift so it is an early signal.

In this article we will teach you all about ICT CISD from its identification to its use in trading.

You can jump to the section you are most interested in from below or can continue reading the whole article for better understanding.

Table of Contents
What is ICT Change in the State of Delivery
How to Spot an ICT CISD on the Chart?
(I) Bullish ICT CISD
(II) Bearish ICT CISD
ICT CISD vs ICT MSS
ICT CISD PDF Download
FAQs about ICT CISD
What is ICT Change in the State of Delivery
ICT Change in the state of delivery basically means the change in the direction of price delivery, for instance if price was being delivered to the buy-side initially now after an ICT CISD price is going to be delivered to the sell-side.

How to Spot an ICT CISD on the Chart?
An ICT change in the state of delivery is indicated by the closing of price above the opening price of bearish price delivery and closing of price below the opening price of bullish price delivery.

To have a better understanding of ICT CISD lets explore its types with examples.

(I) Bullish ICT CISD
A bullish ICT change in the state of delivery is indicated by the closing of price above the opening price of bearish price delivery. It signifies a loss of selling momentum and could be a precursor to a reversal.

A bearish price delivery can be seen with a single bearish candle or the consecutive series of bearish candles.

For the ICT CISD you will ignore the wicks of candlestick and you will only pay attention to the opening and closing prices.

When price breaks above the closing price of bearish price delivery the bearish candles act as a bullish order block thus supporting price to move further upside.

(II) Bearish ICT CISD
A bearish ICT change in the state of delivery is indicated by the closing of price below the opening price of bullish price delivery. It signifies a loss of buying momentum and could be a precursor to a reversal.

A bullish price delivery can be seen with a single bullish candle or the consecutive series of bullish candles.

For the ICT CISD you will ignore the wicks of candlestick and you will only pay attention to the opening and closing prices.

When price breaks below the closing price of bullish price delivery the bullish candles act as a bearish order block thus resisting price to move further down-side.

ICT CISD vs ICT MSS
Market Structure Shift (MSS) and Change in State of Delivery (CISD) are ways to predict market reversals, but they differ in what they analyze and how they’re used:

Core Focus:

MSS: Tracks bigger picture trend changes, like a switch from bullish to bearish.

CISD: Looks at how strong buying or selling is by checking if prices are closing lower than they opened.

Confirmation:

MSS: A trend shift is confirmed when price breaks a major high or low.

CISD: A change in momentum is confirmed when price closes below the opening of one or more up candles.

Timing:

CISD: Signals earlier but may lead to more false starts.

MSS: Gives confirmation later, but with more certainty, though you might miss the first move.

Trade-Offs:

CISD: Good for quick entries but carries more risk of error.

MSS: Safer but might limit profit opportunities.

Think of MSS as the big picture and CISD as the fine detail. Together, they can improve your analysis when combined with other tools and careful risk management.

FAQs about ICT CISD
What is a bullish order block in ICT CISD?

A bullish order block occurs when bearish candles act as support for price after a bullish CISD. This means that after price closes above the bearish candle(s), those candles create a base for future upward price movements.

What is a bearish order block in ICT CISD?

A bearish order block occurs when bullish candles act as resistance after a bearish CISD. This means that after price closes below the bullish candle(s), those candles create a ceiling for future downward price movements.

How does ICT CISD help in trading?

ICT CISD signals a potential reversal in price direction, which can help traders spot shifts in momentum early and position themselves accordingly.

Can ICT CISD be used alone for trading decisions?

While ICT CISD can provide valuable insights, it is often best to use it in conjunction with other ICT concepts and technical analysis tools for a more comprehensive trading strategy.

## 7 ICT PD Array Matrix – Key to Trade Execution
ICT PD-Array stands for the “Premium and Discount Arrangement” and is used as a checklist to determine the trade entry points in the market.

You can draw fibonacci from an old high to old low using ICT Dealing Range to find the PD arrays.

In this article we will teach you all about the ICT PD array matrix from the identification to their use for trading with examples.

You can jump to the section you are most interested in from below or can continue reading the whole article for better understanding.

Table of Contents
What is ICT PD Array Matrix?
How to Identify the ICT PD Arrays?
Types of ICT PD Arrays
Bullish PD Arrays
Bearish PD Arrays
How to Use ICT PD Arrays
Best Time Frame for ICT PD Arrays
Best Trading Pair for ICT PD Arrays
Final Thoughts
ICT PD Array PDF Download
FAQs About ICT PD Array
What is ICT PD Array Matrix?
ICT PD arrays are the arrangement of ICT trade entry tools in the premium and discount zone.

Traders use the PD arrays to find the optimal price for buying and selling in the market.

As a seller you will always wish to sell at a premium price while as a buyer you will wish to buy at a discounted price, so the ICT PD arrays serve the purpose to get you the better price.

Elements of ICT PD arrays

PD arrays contain the following ICT trigger tools.

(I) ICT Fair Value Gap

(II) ICT Inversion Fair Value Gap

(III) ICT Order Block

(IV) ICT Breaker Block

(V) ICT Mitigation Block

(VI) ICT Unicorn

(VII) ICT NWOG

(VIII) ICT NDOG

How to Identify the ICT PD Arrays?
To identify the ICT premium and discount zone, you have to use the fibonacci with following inputs.

(I) 1 (Start)

(II) 0.5 (Equilibrium)

(III) 0 (End)

Now plot the fibonacci from an established old high to established old low.

0.5 level of fibonacci tool is basically the 50% retracement level and the area above 0.5 fibonacci retracement level is the premium zone.

While the area below 0.5 fibonacci level on price chart is identified as discount zone.

Types of ICT PD Arrays
On the basis of price movement PD arrays are divided into two types listed below.

Bullish PD Arrays
Bullish PD arrays are the arrangement of ICT trade execution tools in the discount zone.

You would be using the bullish PD arrays to look for the buying area when your bias is bullish.

Below is the list of bullish PD arrays.

(I) Bullish Fair Value Gap (BISI)

(II) Bullish Order Block

(III) Bullish Breaker Block

(IV) Bullish Mitigation Block

(V) Inverse Fair value gap

(VI) ICT NDOG

(VII) ICT NWOG

(VIII) ICT Unicorn Model

If there are multiple ICT bullish trigger tools present in the discount zone, you can wait for price to test anyone of them and get rejected so you could execute a buy trade.

A real market example of bullish PD array is shown in the picture below.

Bearish PD Arrays
Bearish PD arrays are the arrangement of ICT trade execution tools in the premium zone.

You would be using the bearish PD arrays to look for the selling area when your bias is bearish.

Below is the list of bullish PD arrays.

(IX) Bearish Fair Value Gap (SIBI)

(X) Bearish Order Block

(XI) Bearish Breaker Block

(XII) Bearish Mitigation Block

(XIII) Inverse Fair value gap

(XIV) ICT NDOG

(XV) ICT NWOG

(XVI) ICT Unicorn Model

If there are multiple ICT bearish trigger tools present in the discount zone, you can wait for price to test anyone of them and get rejected so you could execute a sell trade.

A real market example of bearish PD arrays is shown in the picture.

How to Use ICT PD Arrays
ICT PD arrays can serve two major purposes for traders.

(I) You can use the PD arrays to find the ICT Daily Bias.

If price has already shifted the structure to downside and is now in the premium zone, it means you can look for sell trade setups.

If price has already shifted the structure to upside and is now in the discount zone, it means you can look for buy trade setups.

(II) You can also use the ICT PD array while executing a trade.

If the daily bias is bearish and price is in the premium zone, you can go in the lower time frame and find the bearish PD arrays there after a market structure shift to execute a sell trade.

If the bias is bullish and price is in the discount zone, you can go in the lower time frame and find the bullish PD arrays there after a market structure shift to execute a buy trade.

Best Time Frame for ICT PD Arrays
If you are looking for the daily bias using the ICT PD arrays, then the 1 Day timeframe can be the useful.

While looking for a trade entry, you can use the PD arrays in lower timeframes like 15-Minutyes and 5-Minutes.

Best Trading Pair for ICT PD Arrays
Basically ICT PD arrays were introduced and experimented by the ICT on indexes like NASDAQ (NQ Futures) and E-mini (S&P 500).

But with time traders started using the PD arrays for forex and metals and it delivered the best results there too.

So the ICT PD arrays are equally good for the major forex pairs like GBP/USD, EUR/USD and for the XAU/USD.

Final Thoughts
You should use the ICT PD arrays in conjunction with the other ICT strategies like the ICT 2022 MODEL or Silver Bullet.

While using ICT PD array in trading, we should keep in mind that no strategy is foolproof in trading, so you should not risk all your capital on this strategy.

## 8 ICT Market Structure Shift Explained – ICT MSS Trading
ICT market structure shift indicates the initial change in direction of price, which can turn into reversal of trend.

Market structure shift is a powerful technical tool used by ICT traders to predict and trade the future move of any asset.

ICT MSS can also be used as a trade confirmation before executing a trade at higher timeframe PD-Array .

In this article, you will get to know about ICT market structure shift (MSS) from its formation and identification to use in trading along with examples.

You can jump to the section you are most interested in from below or can continue reading the whole article for better understanding.

Table of Contents
What is ICT Market Structure Shift in Trading?
How to Identify an ICT MSS?
ICT MSS Types
Bullish ICT Market Structure Shift
Bearish ICT Market Structure Shift
ICT MSS Trading Strategy
Best Time Frame for ICT MSS
How to Spot Valid MSS
Final Thoughts
FAQs about ICT Market Structure Shift
ICT Market Structure Shift PDF Download
What is ICT Market Structure Shift in Trading?
ICT market structure shift (MSS) is an initial signal of trend reversal which can either be a short term or long-term change in market structure.

In simple terms, an MSS indicates that the current market momentum has not just paused but is probably reversing direction.

In bullish trend after a series of higher lows a new lower low suggests a market structure shift.

While in bearish trend after a series of lower lows a new higher low indicates a MSS.

How to Identify an ICT MSS?
ICT market structure shift (MSS) is indicated by a break of swing high or swing low on a price chart, with a displacement move.

You can see the example of ICT market structure shift in the picture below.

So to identify an ICT MSS, you should firs know about ICT Swing high, ICT Swing low & Displacement move which are explained below.

ICT Swing High

A swing high is a three-candle formation in such a way that the “high of 1st & 3rd candle” is lower than the high of 2nd candle.

You can say that the high of middle candle is highest than the following left and right candle’s high.

You can see the example of ICT Swing high in the picture below.

ICT Swing Low

Swing low is a three-candle formation in such a way that the “low of 1st & 3rd candle” is higher than the low of 2nd candle.

You can say that the low of middle candle is lowest than the following left and right candle’s low.

You can see the ICT swing low example in the picture given below.

Displacement Move

Displacement move is a powerful move in one direction. It can be with a single candle or number of candles positioned in same direction.

It is indicated by large real bodies with very short wicks and fair value gap between them, suggesting very little disagreement between buyers and sellers.

You can see the example of Displacement move in the picture below.

ICT MSS Types
On the basis of price move ICT MSS is divided into two types which are explained below.

Bullish ICT Market Structure Shift
Bullish ICT market structure shift is identified by a break of swing high by a bullish displacement price move.

It indicates the change in price direction from bearish to bullish, which can be utilized as an initial signal for trade execution.

You can see an example of bullish market structure shift below.

Bearish ICT Market Structure Shift
Bearish ICT market structure shift is identified when a swing low is broken by a bearish displacement in price.

This signals a shift in price direction from bullish to bearish and can serve as an initial signal for trade entry.

You can see an example of bearish market structure shift below.

ICT MSS Trading Strategy
To trade using ICT market structure shift you should have a correct ICT DAILY BIAS.

(I) MSS Trading Bullish Market

To trade using ICT MSS in bullish market, you should have a bullish Daily Bias.

In this scenario when price approaches the higher time frame discount PD-Array, go into the lower time frame like 5-Minutes or lower than that.

And look for a bullish ICT market structure sift.

After the bullish MSS, wait for price to retrace back to the Breaker Block, Order Block or Fair Value Gap to execute a buy trade.

In this scenario you stop loss will be below the low of ICT MSS and for take profit you can target the Premium PD-Array or nearest buy-side liquidity.

You can see a real market example of MSS trading in bullish market in the picture given below:

(II) MSS Trading Bearish Market

To trade using the ICT MSS in a bearish market, start by confirming a bearish daily bias.

When the price reaches a higher time frame’s PREMIUM PD-ARRAY, switch to a lower time frame, like the 5-minute chart or lower & then look for a bullish ICT market structure shift.

Once the MSS appears, wait for the price to retrace back to key zones, such as the Breaker Block, Order Block, or Fair Value Gap to place a sell order.

In this setup, your stop loss should be set above the high of the MSS, and for take profit you can aim for the discount PD-ARRAY or the nearest sell-side liquidity.

You can see an example of ICT MSS trading in bearish market, in the picture given below:

Best Time Frame for ICT MSS
ICT market structure shift can serve different purpose.

So if you are using it for the trade entry confirmation than you should go for lower timeframes like 05-Minutes or lower than that.

But if you would be using it for the identification of market trend then you can for the higher time frames like 1-Day or 4-Hours.

How to Spot Valid MSS
Every break of swing low or swing high can be considered an ICT MSS.

But if price has swept the buy-side liquidity after forming swing low and sell-side liquidity after forming swing high, then the MSS after break of this swing low/high will be more reliable and valid.

Final Thoughts
As the name indicates market structure shift (MSS) means change in the direction, so we should keep in mind that no strategy is foolproof & not to risk all capital on any single strategy.

Plus to mitigate your risks, you should always trade with stop loss in place to keep your equity safe.

FAQs about ICT Market Structure Shift
Here are some brief answers to frequently asked questions about ICT market structure shift.

What is MSS in Trading?

MSS stands for market structure shift that indicates the initial change in direction of price, which can turn into reversal of trend.

## 9 ICT Liquidity Sweep and Liquidity Run
Discover the difference between ICT liquidity sweep and liquidity run through detailed real market examples in this article.

With thorough study and dedicated market practice, you will be able to distinguish these concepts like a seasoned trader.

To understand the difference between liquidity sweep and liquidity run you should first learn about the Liquidity

Now lets start with understanding the liquidity sweep.

What is ICT Liquidity Sweep?
An ICT liquidity sweep refers to a price movement designed to capture liquidity before reversing direction.

For instance, the price may aim for equal highs, targeting buy-side liquidity, and momentarily surpass these highs but fail to close above them, subsequently reversing.

Alternatively, if the price closes above the highs, it quickly reverses with strong selling momentum.

This phenomenon is called a liquidity sweep because the price movement occurs primarily to capture liquidity.

How to Anticipate the Liquidity Sweep?
To anticipate the ICT liquidity sweep you should have a clear idea of higher time frame market structure.

(I)
If the higher timeframe market structure is Bullish and price is supposed to test the higher timeframe PD Array in Discount area.

Then price may target the equal lows or bearish Liquidity Pools to sweep the sell-side liquidity and then reverses to upside after tapping the higher timeframe PD array.

So in bullish trend if price target the equal lows or previous lows you can anticipate it as liquidity sweep until the market structure is bullish.

(II)
If the higher timeframe market structure is Bearish and price is supposed to test the higher timeframe PD Array in Premium area.

Then price may target the equal highs or bullish Liquidity Pools to sweep the buy-side liquidity and then reverses to down side after tapping the higher timeframe PD array.

So in bearish trend if price target the equal highs or previous highs you can anticipate it as liquidity sweep until the market structure is bearish.

What is ICT Liquidity Run?
An ICT liquidity run occurs when the price moves in the direction of the prevailing trend, targeting liquidity and continuing its movement.

For example, in a bullish market, the price may aim for a previous high, capture the liquidity there, and then continue rising to reach a new high.

Conversely, in a bearish market, the price may target a previous low, capture the liquidity, and then continue falling to reach a new low.

This phenomenon is called a liquidity run because the price captures liquidity and keeps moving without reversing direction.

How to Anticipate the Liquidity Run?
To anticipate the liquidity run you should know the higher timeframe market structure.

(I)
When the higher timeframe market structure is bullish and price has swept the liquidity at the lows (inducement), you can anticipate the price to move upwards, running above the previous high and setting a new high.

(II)
When the higher timeframe market structure is Bearish and price has swept the liquidity at the highs (inducement), you can anticipate the price to move downwards, running below the previous low and marking a new low.


## 10 ICT Daily Bias Trick – No One Told You
As I have received many comments from your side that you guys are facing difficulty in finding the ICT daily bias.

I have worked on it and finally I’m here with a trick solution to ICT daily bias.

If you are new to my blog and don’t know what the ICT daily bias is then don’t worry am gonna define it first.

What is ICT Daily Bias?
ICT daily bias is basically the anticipated direction of price for the day which helps us to find and execute the trading opportunities.

You can study the complete article here ICT Daily Bias Explained in Depth.

How to Find ICT Daily Bias?
To find the ICT daily bias you just need to know about the ICT Market Structure Shift .

For the purpose of this trick we will be using only the 1 day timeframe to find the ICT daily bias.

To determine the daily bias of an asset, start by examining its daily chart.

Look for the recent ICT Market Structure Shift on either side.

ICT Bullish Daily Bias
If price has shifted its structure to the buy-side recently then it will indicate the bullish bias.

But to trade the bullish bias you have to follow the steps given below.

(I) Find the Discount Zone or use ICT OTE Pattern sweet-spot.

(II) Wait for price to trade back into ICT PD Array in discount area or OTE sweet spot.

(IV) Note that, while trading back to discount area or ICT OTE sweet spot price should not shift its structure to the sell-side.

(V) When price approaches the ICT discount area or Optimal Tarde entry area, you can look for the confirmation like ICT market structure shift to the up-side in lower time frame but not lower than 15 minutes.

(VI) Keep in mind, The higher the timeframe of confirmation, the more valid the confirmation will be.

After the confirmation you can execute a buy trade targeting ICT low resistance liquidity run and you can continue trading buy-side until price shifts to the sell-side on daily timeframe.

ICT Bearish Daily Bias
If the price has shifted its structure to the sell-side recently, it will indicate a bearish bias.

To trade the bearish bias, follow these simple steps:

(I) Identify the Premium Zone or use the ICT OTE Pattern sweet spot.

(II) Wait for the price to trade back into ICT PD array in premium area or OTE sweet spot.

(III) Note that, while trading back to the premium area or ICT OTE sweet spot, the price should not shift its structure to the buy-side.

(IV) When the price approaches the ICT premium area or Optimal Trade Entry area, look for confirmation like an ICT market structure shift to the sell-side in a lower timeframe, but not lower than 15 minutes.

(V) Keep in mind that the higher the timeframe of confirmation, the more valid the confirmation will be.

After the confirmation you can execute a sell trade targeting ICT low resistance liquidity run and you can continue trading sell-side until price shifts to the buy-side on daily timeframe.

## 11 Master ICT OTE Trading Strategy – Optimal Trade Entry Guide
ICT OTE is the retracement level of price based on fibonacci between an established high and low, from where price is expected to reverse.

At the ICT optimal trade entry level, the risk is neither too little nor too high and is likely to give you the best return.
You can use the optimal trade entry for scalping, intraday trading and swing trading as well.

In this article we will teach you everything about ICT OTE trading from its identification to its use in real markets.

You can jump to the section you are most interested in from below or can continue reading the whole article for better understanding.

Table of Contents
What is ICT OTE?
How to Trade ICT OTE?
(I) ICT OTE in Bullish Market
(II) ICT OTE in Bearish Market
Final Thoughts
FAQs About ICT OTE/Optimal Trade Entry
ICT Optimal Trade Entry – OTE PDF Download
What is ICT OTE?
Optimal trade entry is basically a trading model based on the retracement of price in a trendy market.

Fibonacci retracement levels defined by the Inner Circle Trader are key to trade ICT OTE and are explained later.

When price moves in a trend either bullish or bearish, it does not go vertically straight rather it retrace and then rallies.

So, ICT OTE can be used for joining the trends at retracement levels and for the reversals at the key PD-Arrays of higher time frame.

ICT Fibonacci Levels for OTE Setup

To use ICT optimal trade entry pattern you should set your fibonacci retracement levels to the following as used by ICT.

0	First Profit Scale
0.5	Equilibrium
0.62	OTE level 1
0.705	0TE level 2
0.79	Optimal Trade Entry
1	100% retracement level (Starting Position)
-0.5	Target 1
-1	Target 2
-2	Symmetrical Price

To identify an ICT OTE pattern first of all you have to set OTE levels for the fibonacci.
If you are using trading view then these levels would look like this as shown below.

To find the optimal trade entry spot, identify established high and low to mark the ICT DEALING RANGE as shown in the picture below.

Now apply the fibonacci retracement tool from high to low of ICT dealing range.

Remember, the precise OTE level is 0.705, though any value between 0.62 and 0.79 still lies within the OTE range.

How to Trade ICT OTE?
To trade using ICT Optimal trade entry you should have a correct daily bias. ICT OTE can divide it into two types.

(I) ICT OTE in Bullish Market

(II) ICT OTE in Bearish Market

(I) ICT OTE in Bullish Market
As you know in bullish market price moves toward the upside but in a zigzag manner, taking retracements and then rallying.

To initiate buy trade after the retracements using ICT optimal trade entry, you need to identify an ICT dealing range first as shown in the picture below.

After identifying the ICT dealing range you would plot the fibonacci retracement tool from low to high of the dealing range and mark the OTE levels for buy trade.

After having known the ICT OTE price level, wait for price to retrace and test the OTE price level.

When price approaches the ICT OTE price levels you can directly initiate a buy trade or wait for confirmations like the price rejection or ICT MSS in lower time frame.

(II) ICT OTE in Bearish Market
In a bearish market, prices tend to move downward in a zigzag pattern, with brief rallies followed by further declines.

To initiate a sell trade after one of these rallies using ICT’s Optimal Trade Entry (OTE) strategy, the first step is to define an ICT dealing range, as shown in the illustration below.

Once the dealing range is identified, apply the Fibonacci retracement tool from the high to the low of the range. This will help you pinpoint the OTE levels for a potential sell trade.

After identifying the OTE level, wait for the price to rally back and test the OTE area.

When the price approaches these levels, you can either enter the sell trade immediately or wait for additional confirmation signals, such as price rejection or an ICT Market Structure Shift (MSS) on a lower timeframe.

Final Thoughts
While using ICT optimal trade entry setup in trading, we should keep in mind that no strategy is foolproof in trading, so you should not risk all your capital on this strategy.

Plus to mitigate your risks, you should always trade with stop loss in place to keep your equity safe.

FAQs About ICT OTE/Optimal Trade Entry
Here are some brief answers to frequently asked questions about ICT OTE/optimal trade entry.

What is OTE/Optimal Trade Entry in trading?

ICT OTE stands for optimal trade entry. It is the retracement level of price based on fibonacci between an established high and low, from where price is expected to reverse.

IS ICT Optimal Trade Entry a Reliable Model for Trading?

Yes ICT optimal trade entry is most reliable model of ICT trading strategy as it is a trend continuation model, until the trend reverses you can trade using ICT OTE SETUP.

Is ICT OTE a Day Trading Strategy?

Yes! ICT OTE is day trading method but you can use it for swing and scalping also as it is a trend based method, by following the market trend in any time frame you can trade with ICT OTE.

Like for swing trade setup you may follow daily timeframe trend and you can use ICT OTE levels for trade entry.

Is there any Specific Time for ICT OTE setup?

No there is no specific time of the day for ICT OTE.

But as you know kill zone times are most important time of the day so preferably you should look for ICT OTE setup during ICT Kill Zones timings.

## 12 extra value - Identify Inducement in Forex Trading: The Ultimate Guide for Traders
Table of Contents
Key Takeaways
Introduction
What is Inducement in Forex?
What is the Difference Between Inducement and Liquidity?
How to Mark Inducement in Trading?
How to Avoid Inducement in Forex?
What is an Inducement Strategy?
Free PDF on How to Identify Inducement in Forex
Conclusion
Key Takeaways
Inducement is deliberate price action designed to access liquidity
Identifying liquidity zones helps anticipate potential inducement
Trading with market structure awareness reduces the risk of falling for inducement
Patience and confirmation are crucial for avoiding inducement traps
Introduction
Welcome to the world of inducement in Forex trading, perhaps one of the most misunderstood yet powerful concepts that institutional traders, as discussed in our ultimate guide to the Smart Money Concepts article, have been using to profit for decades. As a Forex trader navigating the markets, understanding inducement can be the difference between consistent profits and perpetual frustration.

In this comprehensive guide, I’ll break down what inducement really means, how the big players use it against retail traders like us, and most importantly – how you can identify these setups to trade with the smart money instead of against it.

What is Inducement in Forex?
Inducement in forex is a strategic price movement deliberately engineered by institutional traders to entice retail traders into taking positions at unfavorable prices. Think of it as bait – big market players create price movements that appear to signal a strong trend in one direction, encouraging smaller traders to enter, only to suddenly reverse course and capture profits from those misled positions.

I remember when I first started trading. Those sudden reversals after I entered a position seemed almost personal, as if the market knew exactly when I clicked the buy or sell button. Now I understand it wasn’t coincidence but calculated strategy by larger players who need retail liquidity to fulfill their massive orders.

Inducement works because it exploits basic human psychology and common technical analysis approaches that most retail traders rely on. It creates false breakouts, fake support/resistance breaks, and deceptive chart patterns that look textbook perfect until they’re not.

Example of an Inducement in Forex
Let’s look at a classic inducement scenario I witnessed just last month on the EUR/USD pair:

Price was in a clear downtrend on the 4-hour chart
It formed a strong support level that held three times (triple bottom)
Retail traders (myself included) spotted this pattern and prepared buy orders at the support
Price dipped slightly below the support level, triggering stop losses for existing longs
As more retail traders went short, price suddenly reversed with momentum
The “fake breakout” below support was actually inducement to gather liquidity

Inducement in Forex
This example shows how big players created the illusion of a support break to induce retail traders to sell, only to push prices higher once they had accumulated enough positions at favorable prices.

What is the Difference Between Inducement and Liquidity?
Understanding the relationship between inducement and liquidity is crucial for any serious forex trader.

Liquidity refers to the available buy and sell orders in the market that can be filled without significantly affecting price. It’s essentially the volume of trades that can be executed at various price levels. Areas where many stop losses or pending orders cluster create pools of liquidity that large players seek to access.

Inducement, on the other hand, is the strategic price action designed to access that liquidity. It’s the method institutional traders use to manipulate price temporarily to reach these liquidity pools.

Here’s a simple way to think about it:

Liquidity is the “what” – the target that institutions want to capture
Inducement is the “how” – the strategy they use to capture it
What are the Three Types of Liquidity in Trading?
In forex markets, liquidity typically manifests in three main forms:

Buy-Side Liquidity: Clusters of buy orders and buy-stop orders that accumulate above key resistance levels or around psychological price points. When institutions need to sell large positions, they often push price up to tap into this liquidity.
Sell-Side Liquidity: Accumulation of sell orders and sell-stops below support levels. Large buyers target these areas when they need to build substantial long positions.
Range-Bound Liquidity: Orders that accumulate at both the upper and lower boundaries of trading ranges or consolidation periods. These areas become prime targets when the market is ready to break out of its range.
Is Liquidity Better Than Volatility?
Liquidity provides easier entry and exit for your trades with minimal slippage, which is particularly important for traders with larger position sizes. Highly liquid markets tend to have tighter spreads, reducing transaction costs.

Volatility, meanwhile, offers greater profit potential through larger price movements in shorter timeframes. However, volatile markets with low liquidity can lead to significant slippage and unpredictable price gaps.

I’ve found that the sweet spot for most traders is moderate volatility in highly liquid markets. This combination allows for meaningful price movements while still providing the ability to enter and exit positions efficiently.

How to Identify Buy Side and Sell Side Liquidity?
Identifying liquidity zones is essential for anticipating inducement strategies. Here’s how I spot these critical areas:

For Buy-Side Liquidity:

Look for resistance levels where multiple rejections have occurred
Identify swing highs where many traders likely placed sell orders
Watch for psychological whole numbers (like 1.2000 on EUR/USD)
Check for clusters of pending buy orders visible on your broker’s order book (if available)
For Sell-Side Liquidity:

Find support levels with multiple bounces
Locate swing lows where protective stop-losses accumulate
Watch for round psychological numbers just below current price
Monitor areas where previous sharp reversals occurred

How to Mark Inducement in Trading?
Marking inducement zones correctly on your charts is crucial for anticipating market moves. I use a specific process that has served me well over years of trading the forex markets.

What is an Example of Inducement?
Let’s examine a recent inducement pattern on the GBP/USD daily chart:

Price was in an uptrend for several weeks
A clear resistance level formed around 1.2850
Price approached this level multiple times, creating a cluster of sell orders and stop losses above it
In a sudden move, price spiked above resistance, triggering many buy orders
Almost immediately, price reversed sharply, trapping new buyers
The market continued lower, beginning a new downtrend
This classic “stop hunt” is inducement in action – a deliberate move to access buy-side liquidity before a larger move in the opposite direction.

How to Spot an Inducement?
After years of watching these patterns play out, I’ve developed a checklist for spotting potential inducement setups:

Price approaching significant level: Watch for price nearing important support/resistance or psychological levels where orders accumulate
Unusual volume spike: A sudden increase in volume often indicates institutional involvement
Quick rejection candlesticks: Look for long wicks or rejection candles that show price briefly penetrated a level before reversing
Break of structure without follow-through: When price breaks an important level but fails to continue in that direction
Divergence with indicators: When price makes a new high/low but indicators like RSI don’t confirm the move
I also pay close attention to market timing – inducement often occurs during periods of low liquidity like session overlaps, major news events, or when specific markets open.

What Does IDM Mean in Forex?
IDM (Inducement, Distribution, Manipulation) describes the three-phase process that institutional traders use to execute large positions:

Inducement: Creating price action that entices retail traders to place orders in the opposite direction of the intended institutional move
Distribution: The accumulation or disposition of large positions at favorable prices while maintaining relative price stability
Manipulation: Engineering price movements to trigger stops and pending orders, allowing for the execution of large position sizes without excessive slippage
Understanding this IDM cycle helps Forex traders anticipate market movements rather than simply reacting to them.


What is Liquidity Sweep in Forex?
A liquidity sweep is a rapid price movement designed specifically to “sweep” through levels where stop loss orders and limit orders are concentrated. These sweeps are a form of inducement that serves a specific purpose – to gather enough liquidity to fill large institutional orders.

Liquidity sweeps typically occur at:

Just above significant resistance levels
Just below major support levels
Around round psychological numbers
At recent swing highs or lows
Before major trend reversals
What makes liquidity sweeps identifiable is their characteristic rapid movement followed by quick reversal. The price action often creates long-wicked candles on charts as price “sweeps” through the liquidity zone and then returns to its original area.

How to Avoid Inducement in Forex?
Now that we understand what inducement is and how to identify it, let’s discuss practical strategies for Forex traders to avoid becoming victims of these institutional tactics.

What Makes Forex Risky?
Forex trading carries inherent risks, but inducement significantly amplifies these dangers for uninformed traders. The primary risks include:

Leverage amplifies inducement losses: The high leverage available to Forex traders (sometimes up to 1:500) can multiply losses from induced bad entries
Market manipulation: Large players have the capital to move markets temporarily, creating false signals
Information asymmetry: Institutional traders have access to order flow data that retail traders don’t see
Psychological factors: Fear and greed make retail traders particularly susceptible to inducement tactics
Understanding these risks is the first step toward developing strategies to avoid inducement traps.

How to Trade on Forex Without Losing?
While no trading approach guarantees zero losses, these strategies can help Forex traders minimize the impact of inducement:

Trade with the trend on higher timeframes: Inducement moves are often counter to the larger trend, so maintaining higher timeframe awareness helps avoid these traps
Wait for confirmation: Don’t rush to enter on the first sign of a breakout; wait for confirmation candles that show genuine momentum
Place stops at logical, not obvious levels: Avoid placing stops at obvious round numbers or just below support/above resistance where liquidity sweeps commonly occur
Use multiple confirmation indicators: Don’t rely on a single signal; combine price action with volume, market structure, and indicator analysis
Develop patience: Many inducement traps catch traders who feel FOMO (fear of missing out); being comfortable missing trades is a valuable skill
How Can I Be Consistently Profitable in Forex Trading?
Achieving consistency requires a systematic approach that accounts for inducement:

Develop and follow a trading plan: Document your strategy, including specific entry and exit criteria, position sizing, and risk management rules
Focus on risk management: Limit exposure to any single trade (I recommend risking no more than 1-2% of your account per trade)
Keep a detailed trading journal: Record all trades, including screenshots of setups, to identify patterns where you might be falling for inducement
Study institutional behavior: Learn to recognize patterns that indicate smart money positioning rather than following retail trading approaches
Practice with demo accounts: Test your ability to identify inducement patterns before risking real capital
profitable traders vs. struggling traders

How to Increase Profit in Forex?
Beyond avoiding inducement traps, these strategies can help Forex traders maximize profits:

Scale into winning positions: Add to trades that move in your favor rather than taking quick profits
Use trailing stops: Allow winners to run while protecting profits as the trade develops
Identify optimal trade entries (OTEs): Enter at high-probability zones after inducement has occurred
Trade multiple timeframes: Use lower timeframes for precise entries while maintaining higher timeframe directional bias
Focus on high-probability setups only: Quality over quantity – wait for setups that align with multiple factors
How Do You Spot Rejection in Forex?
Rejection patterns often signal the end of inducement moves and potential reversal points. Here’s how to spot them:

Rejection candles: Look for long-wicked candles that show price pushed into a zone but was rejected
Volume spikes on rejection: High volume during rejection candles indicates strong opposition to the price move
Divergence with indicators: When price reaches a new extreme but momentum indicators don’t confirm
Multiple timeframe confirmation: Rejection visible across several timeframes increases its significance
Previous market structure: Rejections that occur at previous significant support/resistance levels
How Do You Trade Fakeouts in Forex?
Fakeouts are essentially inducement moves that can be traded profitably if you recognize them:

Wait for the trap to complete: Don’t try to predict fakeouts; wait for confirmation that the move has failed
Look for reversal candlestick patterns: Engulfing patterns, pin bars, or evening/morning stars after a breakout
Use volume analysis: True breakouts typically show increasing volume; fakeouts often don’t
Watch for rapid price rejection: Quick reversal after breaking a key level often indicates a fakeout
Enter on the retrace: Rather than entering immediately, wait for a pullback to improve your risk-reward ratio
Mitigation Blocks: Strategies to Shield Your Trades
Forex trading is inherently risky, and mitigating losses is just as crucial as capturing profits. Mitigation blocks are predefined defensive measures, such as strategic stop-loss orders, hedging techniques, and proper position sizing, that help protect your capital during volatile market moves and adverse conditions. By setting up these blocks, you can reduce the impact of sudden market reversals and liquidity sweeps that are often part of inducement tactics.

Effective Stop-Loss Placement: Position your stop-loss orders at non-obvious, strategic levels to avoid being caught by market noise. This technique helps prevent minor fluctuations from triggering premature exits.
Hedging Techniques: Use hedging strategies to balance your exposure. By offsetting potential losses in one position with gains in another, you can stabilize your overall risk profile.
Position Sizing and Diversification: Limit your exposure on any single trade by sizing your positions appropriately. Diversifying across different currency pairs also helps mitigate the risk associated with isolated market movements.
Regular Review and Adjustment: The market is dynamic, so continuously review and adjust your mitigation blocks to ensure they remain effective under changing conditions.
Integrating these mitigation blocks into your trading plan not only protects your portfolio but also positions you to take advantage of opportunities with increased confidence and reduced risk.



What is an Inducement Strategy?
Now let’s explore how you can develop your own inducement-based trading strategy as a forex trader.

What is an Example of Inducement?
A powerful example of an inducement strategy in action occurred recently on USD/JPY:

Price had been in a strong uptrend for months
A clear resistance level formed with multiple rejections
Price suddenly broke above resistance with momentum
Many retail traders entered long positions, expecting continuation
Within hours, price aggressively reversed below the breakout level
The market continued significantly lower, trapping bullish traders
This example demonstrates the “stop hunt” inducement pattern that occurs before major reversals. Recognizing these patterns can help you avoid false breakouts and even position for the reversal.

What is the Rule of Inducement?
After studying hundreds of inducement patterns across various currency pairs, I’ve identified several consistent “rules” that govern how inducement typically unfolds:

The Liquidity Rule: Inducement moves target areas where stop losses and pending orders concentrate
The Reversal Rule: Strong inducement moves often precede significant reversals in the opposite direction
The Volume Rule: Inducement often shows abnormal volume patterns – either unusually high volume or suspiciously low volume during the move
The Time Rule: Inducement frequently occurs during overlap between major sessions or before significant news events
The Retest Rule: After inducement and reversal, price typically returns to test the inducement zone
Understanding these rules helps traders develop a framework for identifying potential inducement before it completes.

What is an Inducement to Buy?
Inducement to buy occurs when institutional traders want to sell large positions. They first push price lower to trigger sell stops and encourage new short positions from retail traders. This creates the liquidity they need to sell their positions at better prices.

Common patterns that indicate inducement to buy include:

False breakdowns below support: Price briefly breaks support before quickly reversing
Spring patterns: Quick push below support followed by strong rejection and reversal
Stop hunts below recent lows: Price briefly makes a lower low before reversing the downtrend
Liquidity sweep below significant moving averages: Price dips below key MAs like the 200 EMA before reversing
When you identify these patterns forming, they often present excellent buying opportunities after the inducement completes.

What Does It Mean to Give Inducement?
“Giving inducement” refers to the intentional creation of price patterns that entice traders into taking positions that will ultimately be unprofitable. In the institutional trading world, this means engineering price movements specifically designed to:

Trigger retail stop losses
Encourage entries in the wrong direction
Create false breakouts/breakdowns
Generate liquidity for larger orders
Understanding the motivation behind inducement helps traders recognize when they might be falling into these traps.

How to Mark Inducement in a Chart?
Properly marking inducement zones on your charts creates a visual reference for future analysis and trading decisions. Here’s my process:

Identify significant liquidity areas: Mark major support/resistance levels, round numbers, and areas with stop loss clusters
Highlight inducement moves: Draw boxes around price action that shows characteristics of inducement (false breakouts, liquidity sweeps)
Mark reversal points: Identify where price reversed after inducement was complete
Note market structure shifts: Mark CHoCH points and changes in trend direction
Create templates: Develop chart templates that include indicators helpful for spotting inducement (volume, order flow indicators)
I use different colors to distinguish between buy-side and sell-side inducement zones, making it easier to quickly identify patterns forming in real-time.

What Does Offer of Inducement Mean?
In trading terminology, an “offer of inducement” refers to price action that presents an appealing but ultimately deceptive opportunity to enter the market. These offers typically come in the form of:

“Perfect” technical setups that align with common trading strategies
Breakouts of significant chart patterns
Retests of major trend lines or moving averages
Apparent reversals at support/resistance levels
What makes these offers deceptive is that they’re deliberately created to appear attractive to retail traders following conventional technical analysis.

What is the Inducement to Invest?
In forex markets, inducement to invest (or enter long positions) typically occurs when institutional traders need to build short positions or exit longs. They create price action that encourages retail traders to buy so they can sell their positions at favorable prices.

Common patterns that create inducement to invest include:

False breakouts above resistance
Apparent trend line breakouts
“Perfect” bullish chart patterns
Price moves above significant moving averages
Forex traders should be particularly cautious when setups look “too perfect” or when price action seems to perfectly confirm common technical analysis patterns.

